---
layout: post
title: Hello 2021
---

This template is from [yearcompass]( https://yearcompass.com/)

# About 2020 #

## Go through last year’s calendar week by week. If you see an important event, family gathering, friendly get-together or a significant project, write it down here.

It seems that everyone thinks 2020 sucks.

2020 was a bumpy ride for me:

This year I spent most of my time in my cramped  apartment, regretting regularly I should have rented a spacious one. 

But it was a bit surprising that I traveled more than I expected - I traveled to Madrid, Munich, Mallorca and Sevilla.

The biggest event of the year is definitely COVID 19: this wracking havoc was once so  nerve wracking to me (from January to March). 
Seeing how it was escalating from endemic to pandemic, I once  felt the world was out of track. It was such a nasty surprise, personally and professionally. 
I cried a lot for the people who asked for help on Weibo, and I refreshed the number of infections every two hours...
For myself, if I anticipated a such pandemic, I would never pursue an MBA.

Then I got used to living with it with its tentacles reaching out to many corners of daily life, but it' s no longer an evil to me.

Other events of the year were related to the job hunting, and here, of course, they are pale in front of COVID 19. But every interview with a consulting firm entailed dozens of hours of preps. And every rejection letter or call increased my anxiety.

A significant academic project was a simulation, in which I spent extra hours to build a solid model, but at the end, the professor said "guys, if I want to hire someone to build modeling, I would go to XX (an university) not to XX (my school)."

## This is what my last year was about

**personal life and family **

Physically, I got infected by Covid 19 like many of my classmates but luckily I had almost zero symptom. 
Psychologically, I sustained losses of interpersonal contact and was troubled with  anxiety caused by the pandemic.
 
But everything related to my family was fine - one thing I feel most grateful this year. I still remember how I was intimidated by the risk of infection for my family, especially for my grandma, but they are shed from this risk thanks to the fact that they are living in the country with most austere measures against this virus.

**work, studies, profession ** 

Both work and studies weren' t on track: 

COVID 19 hit my career as it did to many.

My studies in the first half of the year were missing because I wasn't in the mood. But I did enjoy the second half, because I selected what I' m interested in.

But the pandemic boosted online learning: I completed around 16 courses on Coursera mainly related to digital marketing and data analysis.


**belongings (home, objects)**

I still lived in the same apartment but I got some new objects:
* Ipad and Iphone: both were gifts from my husband to replace the old ones, which were not functioning properly.
* Kindle: I hesitated to buy a new one because the old one was still working, but very slowly. Finally I decided to buy it because I wanted to incite my interest of reading.
* Xiaomi Fitbond: a best quality-price purchase of the year
* Aukey air-buds: another best quality-price purchase of the year

*Apps & Softwares*
*notes-taking & PDF reader*
* Liquid text (Ipad): very "liquid" PDF reader compared to Marginnotes 2, but it doesn's work well for all the types of PDF.
* Noteshelf (Ipad): it replaced Onenote to take handwriting notes.
* Evernote (Ipad): it is only used to scan my handwriting journals but Noteshelf can do it too.
* Mubu (Mac): I bought a subscription plan of 3 years and I usually use it to take down bullet points.
* Simplenotes (Mac): a simple Markdown notes-taking app

*database*
* Notion: I used it heavily during the summer but finally I came back to specialized notes-taking apps and Airtable for database. 
* Airtable: a specialized database app

*productivity*
* Ticktick: it is powerful because it combines "to-do-list" and "Pomodoro". I bought a premium account for reviewing my data but I recently found a free substitute - Toggl - which recently integrated Pomodoro to it too. 
* Hallelujah input method editor(Mac): I use this English input editor to avoid manually type all the letters of a long  word, 'management', for example.

*Dictionaries*
* EuDic: I bought a premium account to synchronize the record of vocabulary hacks - and again, it isn't necessary if you use only one device.
* Frenchhelper:  I bought a premium account to unlock the look-up function but until now, I rarely use it (because I usually read French on Kindle with a French dictionary integrated).

*Meditation*
* Petit Bamboo: three-month subscription, a gift from my husband to motivate me to resume the meditation. 

**relaxation, hobbies, creativity ** 
* Travel: as in Q1
* film & series: 50 films and series this year 

**friends, community**
I made no new close friends. But I catched up with more old friends this year - one of the few silver lining of Covid 19 cloud.
One special person was my peer coach for a class since September, with whom I shared some similarities as a person.

**health, fitness**
Around 120 workouts this year: 
- jogging (90 workouts) 
- Insanity (30 workouts)

I regularly did sports  for around 9 months.
I didn't do sports in Jan because I got burnt, neither in March and April during the lockdown.

**intellectual**
I didn't read a lot of books systematically, but I did begin a dozen of books but didn' t finish due to different reasons (lengthy but low-nutrition content, difficult to understand, lost interests in the topics etc.)

**emotional, spiritual**
Bad news kept sabotaging my mood for the first 4 months of the year.

From September, I started a practice: evaluating my worries level, which is very high among the public.

**finances**
I'm using up my savings.

I intended to learn things about personal finance by reading "Intelligent investors" but finally gave up. I sold out all my funds when people were talking about the stock market in July.

**bucket list**
I visited Cordoba, a city that I wanted to visit when I read 'Spain travel notes" by Linda several years ago.

## About 2020 and pandemic ##
**Redefining control**
*The Stoics of old had excellent teaching: you can only control three things—your actions, words, and how you handle your own emotions. Everything else is outside of your power.
Unfortunately, we often forget this truth. We obsess and worry about things that we
have no real influence over. Let’s recalibrate that. Write down everything that concerns you right now. Once you’re ready, mark the items you can solve on your own by doing something, saying something, or reframing your emotions.*

In 2020, I had two concerns: 1. Health of my family; 2. Job security.

Now I' m quite confident that the first concern isn't vivid as the strict tracing is well done in my country.

About the job security, I can do:
- Manage my expectation and continue to make efforts even if I will have a very negative career start;
- Talk to people actively and learn from their experiences;
- Set up a goal and execute it - for example, to get a certification of procurement, though I have doubt about its value added to my job hunting, but learning doesn' t hurt.

**What you didn’t do this year**
*2020 was a series of upheavals, large and small. Plans got canceled, habits have been upended. Take a moment and list all the things you didn’t get to do this year. Write down the travels, social occasions, adventures, or habits the pandemic took away. It’s okay to mourn and to be somewhat pissed.*
* I planned to go home this summer;
* I should have be present in some parties;
* I didn't do sports regularly in the first month of the lockdown.

**How you rolled with the punches**
*You are resilient. Smart. Adaptive. Now that you listed all the ways this year went
wrong, it’s time to collect your triumphs. List the times when you made it work in 2020. 
Habits you redesigned for quarantine, workarounds you came up with to meet people,
new hobbies, or experiences you discovered along the way. Celebrate that even a global pandemic couldn’t stop you entirely.*
* I had the Coursera courses because I wanted to motivate myself to learn more;
* I catched up with several friends;

**Edit what you do**
*Take another look at your box of missed things. Is there something in it that’s even better not to have in your life anymore? Maybe you’re glad that the morning commute is over or that you don’t have to sit in on endless meetings. If so, write these lessons down. They might come in handy when the pandemic is over, and you’ll decide what’s next for you.*

I saved a lot of time to commute to go to school and to the office for the internship and had the time of learning and doing sports.

**An even better tomorrow**
*Before we finish this section, take one last look at your losses and your triumphs. Is there something among your losses that you could turn into a victory by applying some of the lessons you learned this year? Write down some ideas on how you could design an even better life for yourself in the pandemic.*
* More disciplined in doing sports
* Read less free content
* Write down my ideas
* Talk with people online

**Social distance**
*Even worse than the lost activities and routines are the lost social connections we all
experienced this year. Take a moment to think about the people with whom you lost
touch. Write, doodle, and draw about them freely. How does the distance from them
make you feel? Again, it’s okay to feel some anger at the virus. Feel free to express your emotions on paper*

The biggest loss of connection for me was with my classmates and teammates. I'm really lazy to talk with people on Whatsapp. 

**A smaller circle**
*Most of us experienced the shrinking of our social circles. It is not necessarily a bad thing.
Fewer people can mean deeper connections and more quality time with each other. Who are close to you these days? Who did you manage to keep regular contact with, and how?*
I had regular contact with a couple of Chinese classmates online and had some deep talks.

**Is everyone present?**
*Take a look at the circle you managed to keep. Are you satisfied with it? Is there someone you miss from your core group of people?*
Not really. I feel I need to build a larger small circle but I haven' t started.

**Your best people**
*Who are the three people you were closest with this year? What was it that kept you
together during these trying times? Are you grateful to them for something?*
My husband, mama and third person is missing.
Relationship keeps us together.

## Six sentences about my past year ##
**The wisest decision I made...**
I really don't find a wise decision that I can brag about here.

**The biggest lesson I learned...**
Health (physical and mental) always comes first.

**The biggest risk I took...**
I didn't take any big risks that I can recall now.

**The biggest surprise of the year...**
COVID 19.

**The most important thing I did for others...**
I always feel I have done nothing for others...

**The biggest thing I completed...**
I learned to build a website from scratch.

## Six questions about my past year
**What are you the most proud of?**
I cheered up myself to deal with uncertainties and gained more self-awareness.

**Who are the three people who influenced you the most?**
My husband, a professor and a friend (positively and negatively)

**Who are the three people you influenced the most?**
My husband, an old friend and third person is missing

**What were you not able to accomplish?**
I didn' t build close relation in my MBA community.

**What is the best thing you have discovered about yourself?**
I used to be very low in self-confidence. This year, I realized that I'm not as terrible as I thought.

**What are you the most grateful for?**
* Health
* Stable life
* Family and friends

**The best moments**
*Describe the greatest and most memorable, joyful moments from last year. Draw them on this sheet. How did you feel? Who was there with you? What were you doing? What kind of smells, sounds or tastes do you remember?*
* Walking on the street of a new city with my husband and friends 
* Dinner with my teammates 
* Video conference with friends 

## Three of my biggest accomplishments
**List your three greatest accomplishments from last year here.**
* Insisted on doing sports regularly after coming back to school
* Started to regard my weaknesses honestly and took action to address the problems
* Interviewed with partners of consulting firms - no offer but I didn' t expect to get into second round

**What have you done to achieve these?**
* Action 
* Persistence 

**Who helped you achieve these successes? How?**
* My husband
* My classmates and friends and professors

## Three of my biggest challenges
**List your three biggest challenges from last year here.**
* Mental health problem caused by Covid 19 and bad news
* Job security 
* Built relationship

**Who or what helped you overcome these challenges?**
Same as in the question before.

**What have you learned about yourself while overcoming these challenges?**
* My perception isn' t always the reality;
* Ideas and reality change, so don't rush to be desperate;
* Action works.

## Forgiveness
*Did anything happen during the past year that still needs to be forgiven? Deeds or words that made you feel bad? Or are you angry with yourself? Write it down here. Do good for yourself and forgive.*
* I felt angry with myself for words that I shouldn't have spoken in a group conversation;
* I had conflicts with two persons this year, and one isn' t a close friend, the other one belongs to types for whom I feel sorry but unable to change.

## The past year in three words
Choose three words to define your past year.
* Change management
* Emotion control and thinking 
* Change and action 

## The book of my past year
*A book was made about your past year. Write down its title.*
*Upheaval: Turning Points for Nations in Crisis* - I have to grasp crisis by horns.

# The year ahead

### Dare to dream big 
*What does the year ahead of you look like? What will happen in an ideal case? Why will it be great? Write, draw, let go of your expectations and dare to dream.*

In 2021, I will graduate from my MBA, and it's time to choose a city to settle down and start a new life.
It would be great in an ideal case if:
* I will return to real world and earn money;
* I will start my life in a new community, in which I will put my energy to build relationship;

### This is what my next year will be about
*Define the most important aspects of next year in the following areas. Which events will be the most important? Summarize briefly.*
**personal life and family**
I do hope my husband and I will be able to find the job in the same city and start to build another family.
I will call my mum twice per week.

**work, studies, profession**
No matter which job to take, I will keep myself motivated to achieve excellence. In addition to daily job, I will extend my knowledge by reading, online courses or certification exam.

**belongings (home, objects)**
It' s time to get rid of the things that I don' t really need when I move out of my current apartment.
I plan to do buy a Kitchenaid if I will settle down in a city.

**relaxation, hobbies, creativity**
* I will spend one day of every week on reading the 'useless' book to relax myself;
* I will watch one film per week, but I will stop watching the TV series.

**friends, community**
* Catch up with old friends and give myself the courage to contact the ones that I've  lost contact for longtime;
* Be part of a community when moving to a new city.

**health, fitness **
* Regular exercise every two days;
* Finish 1000km in the first half of the year;
* Stop unhealthy snacks.

**intellectual**

* Get to know about different parts of the world in the first half of the year;
* Systematic reading of 2 or 3 topics in second half.

**emotional, spiritual**
* Regard my emotion from an outsider' s perspective and dialogue with myself when I'm evaded by emotion.

**finances**
* Don' t buy if I don' t really need;

**bucket list**
* Go to North Europe if the travel restrictions are lifted.

### Magical triplets for the year ahead 
**These three things I will love about myself.**
- Get rid of bad habits
- Be optimistic
- Be less obsessed by emotions

**I am ready to let go of these three things.**
- Obstacle from myself to reach out to people
- Capriciousness of flowing with my own feeling
- Laziness and regret

**I want to achieve these three things the most.**
- Widen my horizon by reading and talking with people
- Execute my planning
- Build connection with people

**These three people will be my pillars during rough times.**
- My family
- My friends
- Everyone that is kind to help

**I will dare to discover these three things**
- Talk with people that I don' t know well
- Talk with people from another world
- Be open about my thoughts and feelings

**I will have the power to say no to these three things.**
- Thoughts and ideas that I don' t really agree with
- Temporary happiness but not the thing that I truly value
- FOMO and peer pressure

### Magical triplets for the year ahead
**I will make my surroundings cozy with these three things.**
- A quiet environment where I can do my things free of distraction
- Bright
- Warmness 

**I will do these three things every morning.**
- Plan the priorities for the day
- Summarize yesterday
- Focus on the important tasks

**I will pamper myself with these three things regularly.**
- A good film
- A good meal
- A time slot to do nothing

**I will visit these three places.**
- Five sightseeing in Barcelona
- Granada
- North Europe   

**I will connect with my loved ones in these three ways.**
- Talk with them more frequently 
- Understand what they need 
- Ask what I can do for them 

**I will reward my successes with these three presents.**
- A trip to a destination to be determined 
- Nothing else 

## Six sentences about my next year
**This year I will not procrastinate any more over...**
- Network
- Reading 
- Doing sports regularly 

**This year I will draw the most energy from...**
- Self-discipline 
- Reading 
- Connection with people 

**This year, I will be bravest when...**
- Job market is bleak
- My family needs me 
- I can do something out of my comfort zone but not dangerous 

**This year I will say yes when...**
- There is a challenge 
- There is a gathering or party 
- Someone needs help 

**This year I advise myself to...**
- Don' t overthink 
- Take actions 
- Be confident 

**This year will be special for me because...**
I will start a new career, go to a new environment and meet new people.

## My word for the year ahead
**Pick a word to symbolise and define the year ahead. You can look at this word if you need some extra energy, so you remember not to give up your dreams.**
Courage 

## Secret wish 
**Unleash your mind. What is your secret wish for the next year?**
:) A secret wish

